site/content/en/references/kustomize/kustomization/replacements/_index.md, before:

---
title: "replacements"
linkTitle: "replacements"
type: docs
weight: 18
description: >
    Substitute field(s) in N target(s) with a field from a source.
---

Replacements are used to copy fields from one source into any
number of specified targets.

\
The `replacements` field can support a path to a replacement:

`kustomization.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

replacements:
  - path: replacement.yaml
```
`replacement.yaml`
```yaml
source:
  kind: Deployment
  fieldPath: metadata.name
targets:
  - select:
      name: my-resource
```
\
Alternatively, `replacements` supports inline replacements:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

replacements:
- source:
    kind: Deployment
    fieldPath: metadata.name
  targets:
  - select:
      name: my-resource
```

### Syntax

The full schema of `replacements` is as follows:

```yaml
replacements:
- source:
    group: string
    version: string
    kind: string
    name: string
    namespace: string
    fieldPath: string
    options:
      delimiter: string
      index: int
      create: bool
  sourceValue: string
  targets:
  - select:
      group: string
      version: string
      kind: string
      name: string
      namespace: string
      annotationSelector: string
      labelSelector: string
    reject:
    - group: string
      version: string
      kind: string
      name: string
      namespace: string
      annotationSelector: string
      labelSelector: string
    fieldPaths:
    - string
    options:
      delimiter: string
      index: int
      create: bool
```

### Field Descriptions

| Field                | Required | Description                                        | Default         |
| -----------:         | :----:   | -----------                                        | ----            |
| `source`             | &#x2714; | The source of the value                            |                 |
| `sourceValue`        | &#x2714; | The static value to be used as source              |                 |
| `target`             | &#x2714; | The N fields to write the value to                 |                 |
| `group`              |          | The group of the referent                          |                 |
| `version`            |          | The version of the referent                        |                 |
| `kind`               |          | The kind of the referent                           |                 |
| `name`               |          | The name of the referent                           |                 |
| `namespace`          |          | The namespace of the referent                      |                 |
| `labelSelector`      |          | label selection expression                         |                 |
| `annotationSelector` |          | annotation selection expression                    |                 |
| `select`             | &#x2714; | Include objects that match this                    |                 |
| `reject`             |          | Exclude objects that match this                    |                 |
| `fieldPath`          |          | The structured path to the source value            | `metadata.name` |
| `fieldPaths`         |          | The structured path(s) to the target nodes         | `metadata.name` |
| `options`            |          | Options used to refine interpretation of the field |                 |
| `delimiter`          |          | Used to split/join the field                       |                 |
| `index`              |          | Which position in the split to consider            | `0`             |
| `create`             |          | If target field is missing, add it                 | `false`         |

#### Source
The `source` field is a selector that determines the source of the value by finding a
match to the specified GVKNN. All the subfields of `source` are optional,
but the source selection must resolve to a single resource.

#### SourceValue
`sourceValue` is a scalar field to be used as the replacement value.
`sourceValue` and `source` are mutually exclusive fields and cannot be used to gether.

#### Targets
Replacements will be applied to all targets that are matched by the `select` field
and are NOT matched by the `reject` field, and will be applied to all listed `fieldPaths`.
\
Subfields of `select` that are used to specify GVKNN, accept simple string values and regular expressions.

##### Reject
The reject field is a selector that drops targets selected by select, overruling their selection.
\
Subfields of `reject` that are used to specify GVKNN, accept simple string values and regular expressions.

For example, if we wanted to reject all Deployments named my-deploy:

```yaml
reject:
- kind: Deployment
  name: my-deploy
```

This is distinct from the following:

```yaml
reject:
- kind: Deployment
- name: my-deploy
```

The first case would only reject resources that are both of kind Deployment and named my-deploy. The second case would reject all Deployments, and all resources named my-deploy.

We can also reject more than one kind, name, etc. For example:

```yaml
reject:
- kind: Deployment
- kind: StatefulSet
```

#### Delimiter

This field is intended to be used in conjunction with the `index` field for partial string replacement.
For example, say we have a value:

`path: my/path/VALUE`

In our replacement target, we can specify something like:

```yaml
options:
  delimiter: '/'
  index: 2
```

and it would replace VALUE, e.g. `path: my/path/NEW_VALUE`.

#### Index

This field is intended to be used in conjunction with the `delimiter` field described above for partial string
replacement. The default value is 0.

If the index is out of bounds, behavior depends on whether it is in a source or target. In a source, an index out of bounds
will throw an error. For a target, a value less than 0 will cause the target to be prefixed, and a value beyond
the length of the split will cause the target to be suffixed.

If the fields `index` and `delimiter` are specified on sources or targets that are not scalar values (e.g. mapping or list values),
kustomize will throw an error.

#### Field Path format
The fieldPath and fieldPaths fields support a format of a '.'-separated path to a value. For example, the default:

`metadata.name`

You can escape the '.' one of two ways. For example, say we have the following resource:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  annotations:
    config.kubernetes.io/local-config: true # this is what we want to target
```

We can express our path:

1. With a '\\': `metadata.annotations.config\.kubernetes\.io/local-config`

2. With '[]': `metadata.annotations.[config.kubernetes.io/local-config]`

Strings are used for mapping nodes. For sequence nodes, we support three options:

1. Index by number: `spec.template.spec.containers.1.image`

2. Index by key-value pair: `spec.template.spec.containers.[name=nginx].image`. If the key-value pair matches multiple elements in the sequence node, all matching elements will be targetted.

3. Index with a wildcard match: `spec.template.spec.containers.*.env.[name=TARGET_ENV].value`. This will target every element in the list.

{{% alert color="warning" title="Index by key-value pair matching with regexp" %}}
After [kustomize v4.5.3](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/tag/kustomize%2Fv4.5.3), The index by key-value pair option matches any values with regexp.
If you want to exact match, please use the exact match operand in value. e.g., `spec.template.spec.containers.[name=^nginx$].image`
{{% /alert %}}

### Example

For example, suppose one specifies the name of a k8s Secret object in a container's
environment variable as follows:

`job.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: hello
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: OnFailure
      containers:
        - image: myimage
          name: hello
          env:
            - name: SECRET_TOKEN
              value: SOME_SECRET_NAME
```

Suppose you have the following resources:

`resources.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - image: busybox
    name: myapp-container
  restartPolicy: OnFailure
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-secret
```

In the following configuration:
- SOME_SECRET_NAME is replaced with the name of my-secret
- restartPolicy is copied from my-pod
- a cpu limit value is set in workload containers

`kustomization.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

resources:
- resources.yaml
- job.yaml

replacements:
- path: my-replacement.yaml
- source:
    kind: Secret
    name: my-secret
  targets:
  - select:
      name: hello
      kind: Job
    fieldPaths:
    - spec.template.spec.containers.[name=hello].env.[name=SECRET_TOKEN].value
- sourceValue: "500m"
  targets:
  - select:
      kind: Job|Deployment # using regex to target multiple resources
    fieldPaths:
    - spec.template.spec.containers.*.resources.limits.cpu
    options:
      create: true
  - select:
      kind: Pod
    fieldPaths:
    - spec.containers.*.resources.limits.cpu
    options:
      create: true
```

`my-replacement.yaml`
```yaml
source:
  kind: Pod
  name: my-pod
  fieldPath: spec.restartPolicy
targets:
- select:
    name: hello
    kind: Job
  fieldPaths:
  - spec.template.spec.restartPolicy
  options:
    create: true
```

The output of `kustomize build` will be:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-secret
---
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: hello
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - env:
        - name: SECRET_TOKEN
          value: my-secret # this value is copied from my-secret
        image: myimage
        name: hello
	resources:
	  limits:
	    cpu: "500m" # this value is copied from the sourceValue field
      restartPolicy: OnFailure # this value is copied from my-pod
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - image: busybox
    name: myapp-container
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: "500m"
  restartPolicy: OnFailure
```

Commit message:

Rewording and add label/annotation selector description

site/content/en/references/kustomize/kustomization/replacements/_index.md, after:

---
title: "replacements"
linkTitle: "replacements"
type: docs
weight: 18
description: >
    Substitute field(s) in N target(s) with a field from a source.
---

Replacements are used to copy fields from one source into any
number of specified targets.

\
The `replacements` field can support a path to a replacement:

`kustomization.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

replacements:
  - path: replacement.yaml
```
`replacement.yaml`
```yaml
source:
  kind: Deployment
  fieldPath: metadata.name
targets:
  - select:
      name: my-resource
```
\
Alternatively, `replacements` supports inline replacements:

```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

replacements:
- source:
    kind: Deployment
    fieldPath: metadata.name
  targets:
  - select:
      name: my-resource
```

### Syntax

The full schema of `replacements` is as follows:

```yaml
replacements:
- source:
    group: string
    version: string
    kind: string
    name: string
    namespace: string
    fieldPath: string
    options:
      delimiter: string
      index: int
      create: bool
  sourceValue: string
  targets:
  - select:
      group: string
      version: string
      kind: string
      name: string
      namespace: string
      annotationSelector: string
      labelSelector: string
    reject:
    - group: string
      version: string
      kind: string
      name: string
      namespace: string
      annotationSelector: string
      labelSelector: string
    fieldPaths:
    - string
    options:
      delimiter: string
      index: int
      create: bool
```

### Field Descriptions

| Field                | Required | Description                                        | Default         |
| -----------:         | :----:   | -----------                                        | ----            |
| `source`             | &#x2714; | The source of the value                            |                 |
| `sourceValue`        | &#x2714; | A scalar value as source                           |                 |
| `target`             | &#x2714; | The N fields to write the value to                 |                 |
| `group`              |          | The group of the referent                          |                 |
| `version`            |          | The version of the referent                        |                 |
| `kind`               |          | The kind of the referent                           |                 |
| `name`               |          | The name of the referent                           |                 |
| `namespace`          |          | The namespace of the referent                      |                 |
| `labelSelector`      |          | label selection expression                         |                 |
| `annotationSelector` |          | annotation selection expression                    |                 |
| `select`             | &#x2714; | Include objects that match this                    |                 |
| `reject`             |          | Exclude objects that match this                    |                 |
| `fieldPath`          |          | The structured path to the source value            | `metadata.name` |
| `fieldPaths`         |          | The structured path(s) to the target nodes         | `metadata.name` |
| `options`            |          | Options used to refine interpretation of the field |                 |
| `delimiter`          |          | Used to split/join the field                       |                 |
| `index`              |          | Which position in the split to consider            | `0`             |
| `create`             |          | If target field is missing, add it                 | `false`         |

#### Source
The `source` field is a selector that determines the source of the value by finding a
match to the specified GVKNN. All the subfields of `source` are optional,
but the source selection must resolve to a single resource.

#### SourceValue
`sourceValue` is a scalar field to be used as the replacement value.
\
`source` and `sourceValue` are mutually exclusive fields and cannot be used to gether.

#### Targets
Replacements will be applied to all targets that are matched by the `select` field
and are NOT matched by the `reject` field, and will be applied to all listed `fieldPaths`.
\
Subfields of `select` and `reject` that are used to specify GVKNN, accept simple string values and regular expressions.

##### Label and Annotation Selectors
`labelSelector` and `annotationSelector` allow targeting resources based on labels and annotations respectively.


Example of *equality-based* requirements syntax:
```yaml
labelSelector: "environment=production,tier=frontend"
```
and *set-based* requirements syntax:
```yaml
labelSelector: "environment in (production),tier notin (frontend, backend)"
```

##### Reject
The reject field is a selector that drops targets selected by select, overruling their selection.
\
Subfields of `reject` that are used to specify GVKNN, accept simple string values and regular expressions.

For example, if we wanted to reject all Deployments named my-deploy:

```yaml
reject:
- kind: Deployment
  name: my-deploy
```

This is distinct from the following:

```yaml
reject:
- kind: Deployment
- name: my-deploy
```

The first case would only reject resources that are both of kind Deployment and named my-deploy. The second case would reject all Deployments, and all resources named my-deploy.

We can also reject more than one kind, name, etc. For example:

```yaml
reject:
- kind: Deployment
- kind: StatefulSet
```

#### Delimiter

This field is intended to be used in conjunction with the `index` field for partial string replacement.
For example, say we have a value:

`path: my/path/VALUE`

In our replacement target, we can specify something like:

```yaml
options:
  delimiter: '/'
  index: 2
```

and it would replace VALUE, e.g. `path: my/path/NEW_VALUE`.

#### Index

This field is intended to be used in conjunction with the `delimiter` field described above for partial string
replacement. The default value is 0.

If the index is out of bounds, behavior depends on whether it is in a source or target. In a source, an index out of bounds
will throw an error. For a target, a value less than 0 will cause the target to be prefixed, and a value beyond
the length of the split will cause the target to be suffixed.

If the fields `index` and `delimiter` are specified on sources or targets that are not scalar values (e.g. mapping or list values),
kustomize will throw an error.

#### Field Path format
The fieldPath and fieldPaths fields support a format of a '.'-separated path to a value. For example, the default:

`metadata.name`

You can escape the '.' one of two ways. For example, say we have the following resource:

```yaml
apiVersion: apps/v1
kind: Deployment
metadata:
  annotations:
    config.kubernetes.io/local-config: true # this is what we want to target
```

We can express our path:

1. With a '\\': `metadata.annotations.config\.kubernetes\.io/local-config`

2. With '[]': `metadata.annotations.[config.kubernetes.io/local-config]`

Strings are used for mapping nodes. For sequence nodes, we support three options:

1. Index by number: `spec.template.spec.containers.1.image`

2. Index by key-value pair: `spec.template.spec.containers.[name=nginx].image`. If the key-value pair matches multiple elements in the sequence node, all matching elements will be targetted.

3. Index with a wildcard match: `spec.template.spec.containers.*.env.[name=TARGET_ENV].value`. This will target every element in the list.

{{% alert color="warning" title="Index by key-value pair matching with regexp" %}}
After [kustomize v4.5.3](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kustomize/releases/tag/kustomize%2Fv4.5.3), The index by key-value pair option matches any values with regexp.
If you want to exact match, please use the exact match operand in value. e.g., `spec.template.spec.containers.[name=^nginx$].image`
{{% /alert %}}

### Example

For example, suppose one specifies the name of a k8s Secret object in a container's
environment variable as follows:

`job.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: hello
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: OnFailure
      containers:
        - image: myimage
          name: hello
          env:
            - name: SECRET_TOKEN
              value: SOME_SECRET_NAME
```

Suppose you have the following resources:

`resources.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - image: busybox
    name: myapp-container
  restartPolicy: OnFailure
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-secret
```

In the following configuration:
- SOME_SECRET_NAME is replaced with the name of my-secret
- restartPolicy is copied from my-pod
- a cpu limit value is set in workload containers

`kustomization.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: kustomize.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
kind: Kustomization

resources:
- resources.yaml
- job.yaml

replacements:
- path: my-replacement.yaml
- source:
    kind: Secret
    name: my-secret
  targets:
  - select:
      name: hello
      kind: Job
    fieldPaths:
    - spec.template.spec.containers.[name=hello].env.[name=SECRET_TOKEN].value
- sourceValue: "500m"
  targets:
  - select:
      kind: Job|Deployment # using regex to target multiple resources
    fieldPaths:
    - spec.template.spec.containers.*.resources.limits.cpu
    options:
      create: true
  - select:
      kind: Pod
    fieldPaths:
    - spec.containers.*.resources.limits.cpu
    options:
      create: true
```

`my-replacement.yaml`
```yaml
source:
  kind: Pod
  name: my-pod
  fieldPath: spec.restartPolicy
targets:
- select:
    name: hello
    kind: Job
  fieldPaths:
  - spec.template.spec.restartPolicy
  options:
    create: true
```

The output of `kustomize build` will be:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: my-secret
---
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  name: hello
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - env:
        - name: SECRET_TOKEN
          value: my-secret # this value is copied from my-secret
        image: myimage
        name: hello
	resources:
	  limits:
	    cpu: "500m" # this value is copied from the sourceValue field
      restartPolicy: OnFailure # this value is copied from my-pod
---
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: my-pod
spec:
  containers:
  - image: busybox
    name: myapp-container
    resources:
      limits:
        cpu: "500m"
  restartPolicy: OnFailure
```
